I know what abnormal looks like I'm an
expert at the abnormal and y'all are
[ __ ] normal you guys are just normal
people that had something [ __ ] bad
happen to you and then your brain is
wired a certain way and then you use
these you build up these walls around
all of these negative feelings and so
now you guys need immense courage
because taking those walls down is
[ __ ] it's hard
okay good so let's start with
introductions and so if you guys just
want to tell me how I should refer to
you and what and once again guys huge
huge props to actually you know coming
on today and talking about this it's a
really sensitive topic affects a lot of
people and I really think that you guys
are just doing an awesome job at you
know being so vocal about things that
you struggle with because a lot of
people struggle with this and to be able
to put your face out there and and put
your name out there and live on the
Internet is really like you're just your
balls are gigantic so so let's start
with so let's just start a little bit
with like brief introductions so maybe
just tell me how you want the rest of
the group to refer to you and then tell
me a little bit about why you're joining
the group today or how we can help you
out and let's kind of start in the top
left with the dude in the blue
sweatshirt I I guess you can call me
ghost for the jury okay this dream
awesome goes to welcome in I this is
kind of surreal yeah tell me about it
what do you mean by surreal I don't know
it's it's kind of uh
I've watched you as this sort of
abstract person where it's a one-way
shirt of thing that I'm watching you and
now you're here interacting with us is
just it feels a little bit oh that's a
real I was there's a lot of like surreal
things there but okay and is there
something in particular that you were
hoping to kind of better understand
today or something that we can help you
with um I just saw felt like it would be
a good idea I tried not to
okay think it Charla something good
would come okay great
well welcome ghosts and and next let's
go to yeah I guess you guys don't see
yeah exactly
yeah awesome so my name is Richard I
live in California and first of all I
just liked it not
stock decay for letting all the viewers
on so I'm really really excited for this
my big thing with porn addiction is that
there's like I so throughout my
experience I've always placed a value
judgment when I when I first got into
the act I was king of the animal kingdom
and the two weeks went on and then I
started to see it as like a shameful act
and then more time went on I I don't
know I've like I've tried to differ a
lot of different value propositions of
like what it is like I see like right
now I'm in a state of where um I see it
as you know I see like a little bit of
beauty to it I like even though it's
artificial I still think there there is
room for it in the world
but the one thing that I'm struggling
with is like the dopamine and like the
relationship with the frontal lobe
that's a big thing on why that's
something that I kind of want to moving
forward I kind of want to discuss the
topic of like like nofap and like just
ways that like not using porn as a form
enix of escapism use it more as like a
way to like create things in your
reality I don't know maybe I'm kind of
rambling now but I'm really excited to
be on and listen Richard let me hear let
me tell you what I'm hearing I'm hearing
that you've thought about this a lot and
also you've tried a lot of different
things and you're curious about how
different ways to look at this you're
curious you have like some thoughts
about nofap you have some thoughts about
you know how you apply values to it and
and so you're really here to just learn
and kind of like like sort of sort some
of this stuff out and maybe some of the
other folks here myself included can
like help you sort that out maybe we can
try to understand this a little bit
better to come to some answers together
is that absolutely perfect perfect right
on the middleman and and next we have
the the dude yes hey so you can call me
Harold
okay and I guess I'm Harold the one
thing the one thing things
it's it's we're talking to you as as
ghost said because I just only watched
your stuff and now I'm actually talking
to you welcome man thanks I guess the
only thing I've been really thinking
about is I've been trying to quit this
for four years so I guess I want to
explore reasons why it's been so hard to
kick it because I mean for four years
I've been trying to quit I mean I've
gone lengths of time without it but then
I just always come back and it just
seems like super hard to kick for some
reason I've tried lots of different
stuff and can't really find the right
way to get rid of it okay sure so so
maybe what we can do is is try to like
compare and contrast a little bit see
what people have tried what seems to
have worked what hasn't and then maybe
come to some kind of consensus about how
to help you guys overcome a porn
addiction and so I think the next icon
I'm seeing is myself right this the yeah
and then down in the bottom left yeah
welcome dude yeah oh my name is Erin I
guess my porn addiction is lasted eight
years now yeah okay I guess the one
thing that I really wanted to address is
that the first couple times that I like
well I addressed the issue pretty early
on to myself but when I was trying to
find support and others there was this
sort of stigma I guess that porn isn't
an addiction that will share something
that just like hit me pretty hard and I
guess that's one big thing that I want
to bring up during this stream is that
like pornography can be a severe
addiction just like others but in
different ways of course okay yeah I was
one of the main things that I want to
address so Erin it sounds like
you really looked for help in support
and you you really sort of judged for it
and and kind of you weren't really met
with a whole lot of support or
understanding or and and that was that
that is a big problem absolutely so
thank you for bringing that up and then
next I see like anime portrait with blue
eyes yes hello
hey man welcome I am Virgil on the
discord okay and welcome Virgil thank
you appreciate you having us here
I've been struggling with this issue the
issue of porn addiction since I was 14
okay ballpark for us how long ago that
was uh about ten years okay probably 11
actually okay so it sounds like you me
struggling with this for a long time
yeah and knowing what I know now about
how porn affects your brain your
connections and everything it's been
really tough to quit it because it was
introduced to me by my by my oh sorry
that's okay man take your time it's
[Music]
absolutely I can't I came across it in
my form of years and I think that's that
it's it's damaged me in a way that's
very hard to sort of recognize and deal
with and it's just something in general
that I just want to be able to quit it
because it's just it's something that's
more difficult to quit then maybe people
might think absolutely people people
definitely downplay the issue more than
they should I don't think that they take
it seriously absolutely guys absolutely
so I'm gonna I'm gonna just jump out
what something how many of y'all feel
damaged I do sorry I just see but in
this came a little quick what do you
mean by damaged you kind of I'm just
curious if that word sort of resonates
like Virgil used the word he felt like
you know being exposed to such such an
early age completely damaged him and he
used he used literally the word damaged
and I was just thinking about how
powerful that word is and I was just
curious how much what he experienced
kind of resonates with the rest of y'all
and just fun isn't a thousand percent
and and can you can you share a little
bit more by what you mean by that
whoever said a thousand percent okay my
I thought I came across it when I was 11
and I had a friend at the time and he
you know he talked about how amazing it
was I thought I thought about looking at
it before and it sort of spurred me to
look at it and it was like tasting sugar
for the first time sure and because it's
such a sort of new phenomenon in the
high-speed Internet form that we have it
people don't really understand the risks
and it's not really explained to you you
know you're taught not to overeat sugar
but you're not taught to over consume
this yet it's sort of from the moment I
was exposed to it it was like every day
two to three times a day at least
just from then on for about the first
two years before I realized there were
any negative effects and you sort of
realized it as you start to grow more
desensitized to regular stuff and you
realize it doesn't affect you like it
used to and you get exhausted with it so
it's kind of like moving to not to be it
like hyperbolic but like moving to
harder drugs you can sort of keep
searching for that hi yep so it sounds
like you you have to go to more kind of
more extreme pornography to get the kind
of dopamine response
yeah yeah absolutely thank you so much
for sharing that goes so so I'm hearing
from a lot of you guys that you all feel
you all feel damaged in some way yes all
right so let's just put a pin in that
idea for just a second let's finish
doing introductions and then you know my
hope is that if nothing else I don't
know what we're gonna uncover about
dopamine or neuro development or any of
that stuff but if nothing else I would
love it if if we could you know start
you guys on the path of I don't know
what we're gonna do about porn but if we
can start to help you feel less damaged
and in more whole that's kind of at the
top of my list for like like just first
steps that I don't know if we can solve
the rest of it but but if we can even do
something about that that's just that
feels really important to me can we
continue with introductions so down in
the in the middle right oh you're muted
buddy
can you guys hear him no no so I don't
know if we want to move to the
discussion just right over to the right
move yeah we'll circle back to you buddy
so then the other anime portrait yeah me
yeah George you can call me George if
it's easier to pronounce okay I've been
struggling with this addiction for like
six years okay a discovery really early
age and like 11 C 11 or 10 years old I
don't really remember actually no it was
like 12 or 13 years old and pretty much
I in the first years I didn't really do
it too much but then when my life
started became more difficult and I
became more depressed and stuff I sort
of used it as an escape tool and then
you just you just bite a lot of control
I grew more desensitize
to stuff and I started over sexualizing
people that's one way I feel damaged
like I started over sexualizing stuff
okay and can you help me understand what
you mean by that
like for example I was in school and I
was in class and I looked at a girl that
I was at a crush on and then I was
started I will start thinking about
things I will do with her like stuff
like that even in the street when I
looked at her woman okay so like I
started over sexualizing stuff and II
grew to a point where I was feeling
disgust to myself which didn't help
because then it made me feel more
depressed and made me wanna jerk off
even more
sure so yeah that's something that I've
been trying to drive is struggling with
I tried doing nofap I actually did like
a month but then I just went back in
into it because I was struggling with
school and other surfing yeah okay and
do you want to try so thank you thank
you very much you said it's it's George
yeah yeah okay and do you want to try
the one person that we had to skip are
we are we good you want to try
introducing yourself or you think it's
Oh
still not getting audio okay
no audio yet okay do you want to try
rejoining the call or yeah why don't you
try rejoining and if not then you know
we'll have you four thumbs up and thumbs
downs you're gonna be our our virtual up
vote down vote machine depending on what
other people are saying okay so okay so
let me just think for a second
okay so I'm gonna just toss out a series
of just thoughts
okay topics and then you guys let me
know which direction you want to go so
the first is the sense of being damaged
I think we should really explore because
like George was saying there's something
like a cycle right so we can also talk
about this about the effect when you
masturbate it it serves as like a
dopamine release and helps us feel good
like so we release endorphins and other
kinds of like endogenous chemicals that
make us feel good and so there's anytime
you have an addictive behavior there's
like the addiction in and of itself and
then there's using the addiction is a
coping mechanism for other things
because basically like our brain learns
a surefire way to release certain neuro
chemicals that we're going to make us
feel a particular way so if we're
feeling bad about ourselves and we've
kind of got like this like guaranteed
way to feel better
oftentimes we'll turn to that addictive
behavior and so there's something of a
cycle of addictive behavior and feeling
bad and then using it to make ourselves
feel better so we can talk about the
sort of cycle of addiction in terms of
feeling bad and then making ourselves
feel better we could talk about being
damaged we should definitely talk about
what other people understand or don't
understand and how it sounds like the
other thing that you guys feel is
isolated right so we can kind of talk
about isolation and stigma and then we
can
should probably talk about nofap and
just what you guys think about that and
then the last thing that I'm gonna just
put on the table for is control of the
mind so what I would like to do and
maybe this is where I can actually help
is that our mind functions in a
particular way like we have certain
impulses and then we have certain
feelings and then those impulses and
feelings kind of do some sort of you
know inner calculation and then result
in us engaging in a particular behavior
and so how can we understand like what
is going on in your mind to actually
control it in a way that you want to to
achieve what you want so that's gonna be
like almost like a very engineering
standpoint and I'm gonna ask you guys a
lot about like the sequence of events
over like the span of five minutes of
like what you experience what happens in
your head you know how do you struggle
internally what ends up happening and
and so that's something that I think we
you know hopefully I'll be able to help
in that way because that tends to apply
to all addictions so what exactly
so cycle being damaged being isolated
stigma nofap or controlling the mind
what do y'all want to talk about you
guys want to go down the line just like
we did for introductions or or is the
most poignant which one's the most
poignant you damaged okay so actually
let's just take a step back so how would
you guys so let's say someone you say
that you tell someone that you're
addicted to pornography and they say oh
man that's like that's completely normal
like there's nothing like special or
wrong or different about that can we
actually just start by sort of defining
when you guys say that you're addicted
help us understand or yourselves
understand like where do you draw the
line like why do you think that you have
a problem and like what do you think is
normal let's just start by defining what
we're talking about are we going in an
odor at all no just anyone just you know
just jump in
okay for me when I had the realization
it was when it was like 4:00 in the
morning
and I'm watching for like a few hours
and and then like the next day I wanted
to watch more it was just like the ever
needing like urge for that consumption
okay and it just never went away it was
always there always it sounds like a
hunger that cannot be satisfied
absolutely yep agree so that sounds like
that's a pretty universal experience yes
definitely yeah can you share somebody I
like to know go for it sorry ghosts um
yeah it seems like it's sort of this
thing that overpowers all other things I
first sort of realized it was a problem
at around 13 and I did know that for
three months because I was starting to
learn about how it worked and I felt
great and some of that like bad things I
had noticed when I was a child I was
able to remember anything that I wanted
to so if I watched a documentary and you
asked me about any part of it I'd be
able to tell you exactly what was said
but then once I started watching porn
I know it's over a really sort of a long
period of time my cognitive abilities
were sort of tapering off even though I
was meant to be growing and then I
realized when I didn't know FUP again
they start to come back and I was able
to remember things again fast oh yeah
and I realized they got really bad when
I was 16 and in England we have these
things called GCSEs I seem like finals
other trum sort of similar thing so
before these big tests I was meant to be
revising getting eight hours of sleep
and I was watching porn to the point
where there were three days in a row
we're collectively in these three days I
got two hours of sleep and I was
sleeping for around 40 minutes because I
guess I was using it as like an anxiety
and because I was so I felt so pressured
by these tests that I was just
constantly consuming okay and that's
when I sort of realized it was a really
like it was devouring my life Wow yeah
so I think it was Aaron I saw you
nodding like a madman
when ghost was talking so does that does
that mirror your own is it okay if I if
I just call attention to things that I
notice for you guys absolutely yeah hold
out I'm good with that
okay don't dr. kay just want to let you
know I don't have my voice but okay I
sign that video my I'm sorry I did not
say voice on video you can call me
Squatch I'm 24 I'm from South Florida
and I had a significant traumatic
experience that happened in my life when
I was a kid at 11 years old that ever
since then caused me to have a real
severe addiction to pornography and I've
been struggling with it to this day so
it's about all that honestly I fight
every single day and its really really
rough and even though I don't have my
video I you guys saw my face I'm very
very happy to be here and I'm looking
forward to having this discussion with
you guys awesome and welcome squash and
I'm sorry to hear that something bad
happened to you in your your teen years
I'm also noticing a trend that it sounds
like for a lot of you guys like stuff
started very very early yeah so we
should probably just I just got to think
about that in terms of the developing
brain but Aaron you were you were
nodding along as his ghost was talking
yeah I also experienced a pretty much
the same exact thing I actually managed
to
break the addiction for two years and
during that time I was like at my peak
academically and mentally and my
happiness was like through the roof
but uh then some things happens life
happens and I relapsed I guess I'll call
it that and it's been just repeating
that cycle like you said over and over
again and if you I mean anybody else
curious about how Aaron broke the the
addiction for two years I think that's
incredibly curious about that because
there's so my thing is that I think you
said step four there's like something
there's a conversation that happens in
your mind maybe left and right there
there's a point where when you're
induced in this like coma
this sex drive it's influencing your
whole mind and body and once you start
like bringing up like a conversation
between like yes and though between the
act of doing it or not it just seems
that like the whole like the feeling the
whole feeling inside your body is
influencing your mind and what it's
thinking and then you start making
negative rationalizations about it so
and that's what gets to me most of time
it comes down to a point where I start
arguing with it like this side of my
brain for you know maybe five or so
minutes and then it gets to a breaking
point where like I just my
rationalizations just make sense at that
point and then the act ensues so I mean
I I'm hearing something that sounds like
almost like a very very physical craving
yeah absolutely
that that's what it sounds to me like I
mean it you know it sounds like it's not
actually like your mind it's your body
yeah the craving is huge yeah what is
that what is the craving feel like in
your body well initially so first of all
it gets triggered so once it what if I
see some type of suggestive and
you know like a spark happens and then
like my whole body kind of tenses up and
then I feel it like deep inside my spine
almost my lower spine I feel it almost
around my stomach and it feels like this
what's the word you used it was a ball
of undigested feelings what's the word
for that some scar some scone some scar
yes it feels like I just yeah absolutely
yeah good
well just feel I don't know it's just
like it kind of just starts enveloping
and it's just like it's it has an
influence over my whole body and it's
just like it's it's something I don't
like because I really want to you know
quit this addiction and I don't like you
know surging up this massive energy just
to you know blow it out 40 minutes later
and then have no motivation or more
importantly energy to do anything for
the rest of the day so so I'm hearing
like a buildup of energy or sensation is
that and then and then you you feel
spent afterward yeah absolutely I've
it's yeah I feel like I just I once it's
done I feel like I've given it
everything and then I you know blow off
the rest of the day so I can't like my
biggest concern is when I do it early in
the morning and like at the end of the
day I don't really see much of a problem
but I still see a problem with the porn
addiction as a whole this is the value
judgement of like how early in the day I
do it okay so Richard when you were and
sorry if I'm bouncing around a little
bit you guys are welcome to sort of if
you feel like we're moving too fast you
all are welcome to you know invite us to
kind of stay with a particular topic I'm
just gonna kind of run with what I'm
hearing and and so can I just think for
a second absolutely sure yeah
so I'm just I'm struck by how not
mentalness is like I'm struck by like
the the words that you guys use do not
are not words of the mind like you you
guys use words like damaged or hungry or
even someone said coma I think did
someone use the word coma yeah yeah yeah
so so these are these are incredibly
physical physical words and and what I'm
hearing is that that actually your mind
sort of tries to fight against this
almost like tidal wave of like hunger or
demand and you can sort of like fight
that battle but it's kind of like trying
to keep the waves from washing on shore
like you're like you're like you're like
pushing you're pushing the water back
like with your hands and like you're
pushing and you're like no water it's
like don't come on to shore don't come
on to shore but there's only like so
long you can do that before like you
know that wave is just it's it there's a
certain there's a certain like finality
or futility or inevitability to like
what I'm hearing you guys describe is
that can I jump in and ask a question
yeah absolutely everyone else there do
you guys feel like your cravings are are
more or less re a less frequent when
you're out in public or when you're
actively engaged in something with
people yeah for me it's like a more
passive thing like it's still there it's
like being hungry almost oh yeah it
feels almost exactly like being hungry
for food like it'll be there but when
you're focused on something that
requires your attention that isn't it
that's a necessity it uh sort of forces
it back with sort of like an equivalent
force it's like two tidal waves crashing
against each other in that sort of
analogy yeah yeah go ahead sorry I feel
like when the that emotion is as strong
this is like when I'm really not doing
anything like when I'm not being
productive with anything I'm just like
sitting there
and then I end up doing it mmm so Harold
I thought I saw you or heard you say
something like when you out or when you
are in public it is easier to deal with
yeah well actually me when I'm in public
I probably most of the time I don't have
any urges at all especially like in open
spaces like when I'm out for a walk or
something or on campus or something
I just don't get actually almost any
urges at all it's really just when I'm
like working at home alone or something
or with a few people or something like
that but in public I just don't get them
at all okay so so so for some people it
sounds like it's kind of in the back of
your mind in public for other people it
seems like being in public or being some
otherwise engaged is it really does help
and and I'm hearing that idleness of the
mind really is is like let's some of
those thoughts and feelings kind of come
out it just opens the gate definitely
okay what do y'all think about that I
see two sides to the coin I don't know
what it is but I see I don't know maybe
there's a root cause to our different
problems between us okay what do you
think that root causes
let's hear it Aaron well I've been able
to so I've been to a bit of therapy and
stuff good for you man so I've been able
to yeah thank you I've been able to like
sort of trace back to where it came from
I went through a a similar event when I
was seven years old was sort of forcibly
sexually awakened and caused like a sort
of innocent curiosity to sort of process
what actually happened to me
and once I exposed myself to the world
of porn I was way too young to really
sort of properly handle it and process
it healthily and so it became like an
obsession like when I first started out
I didn't even masturbate I didn't really
have those urges at that age but uh once
said um do you what do you remember what
the draw was but before you started
masturbating it was like I said almost
like a curiosity and then it was still
like a slight like dopamine kick and I
guess it also helped ease some sort of
like social anxieties that I may have
had at that age hmm and ghosts I saw you
nodding along yeah a lot of it resonated
what resonated with you um what he said
about the sort of curiosity and need to
understand and I feel like I also had a
pre-emptive sexual awakening when I was
a child but a lot of the memories are
sort of blacked out and I've come to a
lot of realizations about what that
means but I remember on making like
sexually inappropriate jokes but a very
young age before most people know
anything about it
and I didn't really know where that came
from and it feels like my mind is
constantly blocking out the source and
porn is somehow my minds way of trying
to go back and explore something that I
some sort of trauma that hasn't been
resolved and it feels like when like
it's filling a void and at tons in my
life where I felt wholesome or
appreciated my urges have completely
disappeared like when I had a girlfriend
I didn't I didn't have any edges at all
who who resonates with ghosts like
depiction of like is that what's
happening to you guys I don't actually
resonate with that and actually the
complete opposite and by the way before
I keep talking is my mic okay yeah we're
good man
we're good squash does a lot better
sounds a lot better good I actually was
the complete opposite because when I
actually had a girlfriend around I found
myself when she wouldn't give me what I
want I would turn to porn more and I
would actually start to use it as a kind
of scapegoat to get away from certain
things when she was annoying me or when
she was upsetting me and I wanted to get
away from her and just worry about
myself and give in to my own selfish
desires I would turn to porn and porn
was really a safe spot for me in that
regard but you know the relationship
ended bad and ever since then it's like
it got wrapped up twelvefold so you know
now I'm at a place in my life at 24
where it's like I want to reach out I
want to have more relationships and the
relationship I've had with porn when it
came to having a girlfriend it's like it
didn't matter like I still watched it
and I still went to it you sound you
sound like you judge yourself a lot for
that squash my doctor came I think way
too much my friend I think way too much
what do you think about yourself fur fur
what's that judgment I hear I hear
almost self-hatred yes and it does stem
a lot from the incident I had as a kid
because I never wanted anything to deal
with it and it never was something that
I wanted and it kind of happened and
there's no turning back you know there's
no change in the past there's no fixing
anything or changing anything but
honestly I never wanted this you know
when I think about the journey that I've
been on so far I was 11 years old it's
just it's it's very powerful what what
was powerful Richard I completely agree
I saw
let me think there's a lot of power and
being vulnerable to like what life
throws at you and I just saw like the
way that you're dealing with it I see
sorry can you guys feel my dog yeah a
little bit let me take care of that
really quick right after a lot of power
and being able to you know you know I
don't know I'm lost on this dr. Cammie
that's oh that's okay Richard so I think
what I'm hearing squash so I thought
that was it so what I'm hearing is that
like people are affected by what you had
to say something about squash just
speaking your truth which by the way I
mean you say you've been dealing with
the witness for 13 years and it's hard
it dude it sounds [ __ ] impossible
like heart heart is the understatement
of the year man yeah it's it's one of
those things where I tell myself every
single day that it's something I can be
and honestly just so the stream knows
last night was I want to say the first
night in a long time that I had enough
motivation that it just never even
crossed my mind and we're helping the
same routine man for the past so long
but last night it was one of the first
nights where I said you know what I'm
putting myself first I'm gonna put the
stream first tomorrow I'm gonna not do
it and I didn't and it felt great but
you know I think what was powerful about
what I said dr. kay is that you know
everyone always has different
experiences and everyone's always going
to experience things differently but the
thing when it comes to porn addiction
for me that I want to tell the world if
I could it's just that like it's really
not worth it in the end it's really not
because it changes your relationships
that changes the way you see people but
I know that will maybe get down to it
further down the line but you know yeah
that's that's how I feel and it sounded
like Virgil did I did I hear you say
something kind of aligned with what
squash was saying I thought I heard you
comment yes sir the the thing that it
really resonated with me with what
squash said was that you know I I didn't
I didn't want this for myself I don't
think any of us here want this for
ourselves we don't want to view the
world through this this destructive and
damaging lens that just seems to never
go away it just it hangs over your head
like a cloud constantly and it's
something that I wish I could I wish I
could fix it feels unfixable first yeah
so so this is gonna sound kind of
bizarre I think you guys can get better
but I don't think that this is something
that you can fix
like like fixing implies that there's
something that I don't know how else to
put this but I mean I think what you
need to be is is healed not fixed like
you're not broken like that so though
I'm reeling to be completely honest guys
because I have never I've worked with
people who have had sexual addictions
before I've worked with people who have
had porn addictions before but I don't
know if they were just you know cuz it's
different because you're sitting in an
office and you're you're talking to
another person or there's some degree of
shame or or what but you guys have
really just opened my eyes to first of
all I've never thought of porn addiction
is something that afflicts you like we
think about like diseases as things that
happen to you right like I got the flu
like I'm not the flu it's something that
happened to me and I I don't even myself
like when I think about you know let's
say like a marijuana addiction I don't
think about a marijuana addiction like
happening to someone it's not like
you're walking down the street and you
contract a marijuana addiction but what
I'm hearing from you guys is that like
actually you guys like contracted this
that there's a there's a disturbing
amount of commonality with your story
about being exposed to sexual images
like way before puberty before
understanding what it was and like your
mind almost having a non sexualized like
bizarre like fascination with some
images or things like that and then
y'all are kind of like off to the races
and it sounds like in a lot of cases
there's actually like Frank trauma yeah
doctor can I ask you a question sure go
for it man you know it's one of those
things that it's like it was forced on
you it was not something that you wanted
but my question to you is how much of I
don't want to you know it to sound too
weird but I guess I can just call it
like the human element of just trying
something to try it
how much of that da truly believe comes
into play when it comes to things like
pornography and even going to it for the
first time because even there sometimes
there's trauma there sometimes there's
other things but for the most part
people go to it because they're
fascinated by it they're like oh it's
this thing this thing looks so cool
let's check it out boy what do you say
to the people who just had the curiosity
and just went for it
um so oh so you're saying that that that
what would I say to people who just
became curious about porn there wasn't
any kind of trauma or anything like that
and they just went for it and because
they went for it they became addicted
yes my situation was yeah so here's what
I would say so I think just about every
kid I would imagine or most kids at some
point get curious about pornography and
go for it
like that's a completely normal
experience right are we agreed on that
and I'm so so remember that a disease or
when I think of kind of problems or
addictions especially is when something
within you meets the environment in a
particular way that is like catastrophic
right it's it's not just like kids get
exposed to alcohol and marijuana all the
time some people become addicted why is
that other people do not become addicted
why is that so there's something about
either there's a biological
predisposition or that exposure to porn
or curiosity about porn happened in a
particular circumstance
that allowed the addiction to happen
instead of just like being a 15 year old
kid and like finding porn and jerking
off right which is like a pretty normal
experience so something is different I
still think that III don't this doesn't
sound and I I don't mean to say you guys
are abnormal but this doesn't sound
normal
to me this sounds this sounds like an
affliction like you guys are using this
word these words like damaging right you
guys like something is going on in your
mind that is not really like even start
it doesn't even sound start like it
sounds out sort of sexual it's it's like
some kind of weird curiosity where
there's some part of your brain which
doesn't understand why this thing is so
cool
but like it scratches a niche in your
neurons and then before you know it
you're like scratching that itch over
and over and over and over and over
again this I don't know how how many
other people will feel this way but it's
sort of you mentioned isolation
previously yeah and it feels like
pornography can kind of in a really
perverse way sort of not satisfied but I
guess placate that need for human
connection like when you feel really
alone when I'm around people who I feel
care about me the the urge goes away and
it's not because I'm sexually satisfied
it's just that I feel whole I guess and
it's sort of like it's just filling that
void that you're numbing yourself like
it's a sedative almost at times that's
what I can feel like yeah I'd say very
very similar experiences and we both
feel very in the same way about it he
basically said everything that I wish I
could have said yeah in that squash
talking yes sir
and
what what about Virgil's experience
resonated with you squash can you just
name it what he said specifically when
in the beginning when he was talking
about how porn addiction kind of just
you know it's and I'm listening and I'm
hearing back what you said at dr. K when
you said it's a dopamine itch and you
just keep scratching and scratching and
scratching because I never thought of it
like that before
and the way that I view and urge when I
personally want to watch porn
it's that itch you know it's that issue
just got to scratch it but with what
Virgil said my point was just I agree
with everything of what he was saying
what he was saying about how it makes
him feel I feel very similar along those
lines and in Virgil how does porn make
you feel it's just um it's it's kind of
difficult to to verbalize for me but it
feels isolating it feels like it feels
like I I have some sort of itch that I
can't scratch like it feels like a like
a physical affliction like like it's a
part of me and I can't necessarily but
like the trouble that I have is trying
to that part of me that that's been
affecting me for more than 10 years of
my life because I just I just want to
feel like normal I don't I don't feel
normal right now I know that sounds kind
of oh no no it's okay guys I can I think
for a second yeah
I think I'm understanding something I
just need to understand what I'm
understanding yeah so I think I think
I'm hopeful okay that's I was confusing
what I was feeling for a little bit but
it was hope okay it's good and here's
the reason I'm hopeful so if we think
about medicine or mental health when
when there are shared experiences
amongst people that means like
scientifically like something's going on
right if you have if you just have like
a one-off event science is gonna have
trouble understanding that it's when we
have a repeated observation over and
over and over again that we can begin to
understand something and if we can
understand it I believe that you know
that significantly improves our chances
of improving it or fixing it here's what
I'm hearing from you guys this is not
there's a sense of hole there's a sense
of warmth there's a sense of isolation
there's a sense of something on that
spectrum which somewhere along the way
when y'all were young something [ __ ]
that up it just came in and it [ __ ] it
up and I'm not quite sure how and and
now what it is is you guys have this
this hunger the sense of isolation the
sense of loneliness the sense of not
being understood and then along comes
porn which is your brains way of like
taking that away for a little while
bird and and so you might imagine
absolutely and so you guys have this
sense that okay and then we get into the
situation that y'all are in now where
like you can only like fight off hunger
for so long right and all of you guys
are using this strategy of
like fighting off hunger which if you
think about it that's just not gonna
work right you can't fight off like
hunger needs to be satisfied
the thing is though what you guys do
doesn't truly satisfy that hunger like
the hunger is partially for porn but
it's like partially for something else
does that make sense
yeah it's like you're eating shitty food
and it feels like it's the only food
available yeah I never cure hunger but
you can eat better food and so I think
that if you guys want to be free of this
and I do believe and this could be a
little bit you know stupid I do believe
that people's like mental health can be
substantially like improved I don't
think it's a lifelong struggle I just
kind of choose not to believe that I've
seen enough stuff in my personal career
to where I people I think people can
really like conquer what we call quote
unquote mental illness right doesn't
mean that they don't need to be on
medication or that it won't crop up from
time to time but I think you can
basically live a normal life like that's
my target I don't set my target any
lower that and I think you guys can live
a normal life I think what it comes down
to is understanding that this thing you
guys can't fight the hunger you're just
not going to be able to so the question
is how do you satisfy that in the way
that is like healthy and good because I
I don't think that that hunger I don't
think your body is stupidly hungry right
I think in each of y'all's cases
something happened to you that you
became damaged or busted in some way and
and something within you is just
striving to be like whole again that's
what I'm hearing from you all that is
that you all want to be whole again yeah
desandem oh sorry go for it buddy this
might sound wild I don't know if this is
gonna resonate with anyone but there are
times where I've it feels like you can
be so addicted to porn that I've
preferred porn over sex which might
sound crazy to some people but it really
can
it feels like it because it's a solo
activity there's more I feel like I'm
still stuck in my head having sex
because there's another person there and
I can't get that same feeling of escape
agree yeah it's almost like another
element of control that you have as well
at least it's Saudis yeah yeah the
situation so so not to be indelicate but
I don't think sex and what y'all are
dealing with is the same at all they're
like completely different phenomenon
right yeah and just because you not at
the end does not mean it's similar at
all right and and and that's my whole
point is that I think we need to like if
we want to get better or make you guys
whole again
we have to like really understand what
it is and what it isn't and let's take a
step back and not judge it and just
assume that sex is gonna be a
replacement for this because that
doesn't sound like that's the same thing
at all right it's not just about
ejaculation
it's not about arousal it's not just
about sexuality but it does get muddled
together with those things yeah when I
was doing no five before the Blacktip
month every time I did that the geared I
will do push-ups and I was trying to do
100 pushups a day and I felt like it
helped because I was sort of releasing
energy it's like I didn't feel like
fapping was the thing that it was gonna
be it's kind of hard to put it in in
words but like Bucky transmuted it yeah
yeah like I the urge wasn't really for
the fapping was more like releasing the
energy if that makes sense
yep and I think because I was so
addicted like the only way I saw of
releasing that energy was riffing off
okay so
Harold it looked like you wanted started
not Harold um Aaron it looked like you
wanted to say something yeah
when yeah I also in firmly an agreement
that it can be healed and it can be done
like I guess overcoming this because no
but I've done it before yeah I've done
it before and what it required was sort
of yeah fulfilling that void that is
there that sort of the porn addiction
kind of just barely emptily feels what I
found was very helpful is just having
that like being able to be open about it
and face it head-on
actually during that time of two years I
didn't have I had a girlfriend but I
didn't have sex so it wasn't even like
sex was a replacement for it was just
being appreciated and being in a lot of
healthy relationships and also having a
dharma to also mention that having some
sort of like purpose that allows you to
push forward that helps a lot as well
thanks for sharing dr. Kato for what he
said yeah please man go for it
I for me own personally I related to
that because it really just takes a lot
of energy to actually fight the urges
and I realized that last night as I was
laying in bed it was like nine o'clock
and I was playing in Grand Theft Auto
and I'm sitting there and I'm thinking
like I totally can
just yesterday there's no problem
there's no issue like how much porn it's
not a big deal but then I kind of
stopped and I really paused and I said
to myself like dude you don't want to do
it there's no reason for you to do it
but
the amount of energy and the amount of
strength it took for me to just simply
like not do it it was really interesting
to me to see it because I've never seen
that before in my entire life and for
the first time last night when I stopped
I was just like wow dude like I'm six
foot seven and I'm a lot stronger than I
think you know it's like I I like to
think of myself is so small and I like
to think of myself there's like so tiny
dude but it's like I'm six seven like
I'm a big guy I'm a strong dude I like
to move I like to release energy and
[ __ ] but it's like to stop it it just
takes a lot man it takes a lot yeah so I
think that's that's because the some
scar so I'm [ __ ] amazed by also
understanding of Sanskrit concepts so
props to y'all so I'm just gonna dive
right in okay and if I leave someone
behind just please let us know so I
think that's because the some scar that
forms that is hungry is not six foot
seven it's like an 11 year old kid yes
right so Harold I think you said yes
first yeah well actually I said yeah
because I thought it was interesting
because for me it's not really it's hard
to place the age of that some scar it's
kind of like this it for me it's such an
alien thing in my mind that I can't
really compare it to any age it's like
this thing I don't know it's it's hungry
thing yeah yeah like a hungry beast kind
of a thing like a blob I don't know yeah
so how long has it been with you Harold
uh well for me I started like around ten
eleven like most of these people uh and
so at first it wasn't really that bad I
mean I some some guy told talk to me
about porn like in elementary school and
so I just looked it up and I didn't
really get hooked on it then then right
then but then
I'm guessing it's because as I got into
middle school and I I was like having
trouble with like finding friends
especially like good friends I was I had
bad I was in this group of friends but I
I just knew they weren't really you know
great people for me but I I was just
sort of lost in essence and so I guess I
gravitated more towards porn like then
especially because those friends
actually talked about it as well with me
and so they just talked about as like
this cool thing and you know it just I
think that it helped to solidify my
attachment to it and then I just started
it Korea was kind of a gradual thing I
just I started watching more and more
but super slowly cuz like throughout the
middle school years it got worse and
worse at but it wasn't really as often
as some people have said again sometimes
it was three times per day but usually
was like once a day I don't know where
I'm going with this uh know I mean III
think it you know Harold so guys by the
way y'all don't have to make sense okay
just to be clear so like you're not here
to make sense that's my job I'm supposed
to take whatever you guys so don't worry
about making sense okay I'm just just
the more you guys I think share with
each other so first of all you guys I
don't know if you all like how does it
feel to be talking about this by the way
um at first I was very nervous about it
considering like the overall stigma on
the topic and it's it's really easy for
people to laugh at the issue but you
know you're in our position you won't be
laughing then but now it just feels very
relieving to me
I agree go for it George
okay so it feels really really thing
because I've never talked about this
subject with anyone else like this is
the first time I'm actually talking with
someone about this
and so like hearing other people talk
about it just sharing my story like it
feels reliving it feels like unless how
do I put it
I'm less closed off I don't think that's
the word like I'm not as constrained as
I was like I yeah I cannot see that this
is nothing not something that only
happens to me like all I can relate to
the to the people in this group and this
people probably can relate to me and it
kind of makes like gives me a sense of
happiness because like okay I'm not
alone within this all right
abso-fucking-lutely so I I think I mean
I you know do you guys feel like the
people who are on this call understand
you yeah
what does that feel good like you're not
a freak yeah so so let me ask you guys
this the part of you that's hungry what
happens to that part when you're
understood by others goes away it's yes
right now it's gone completely gone it's
smaller so what do y'all think about
that it's it's it's just dr. K I've been
dealing with this for a really long time
and I'm not a social dude I don't have
any like Facebook I deleted all my
snapchat like I'm on nothing man it's
like I work I go to school I have a very
very small circle like I have a very
loving family and it's like I get really
lonely sometimes and it's just I said
you know what I'm gonna try this I'm
gonna see what this is like
and it's just this whole experience
chatting with everyone in the car just
not feeling like such a freak it's a
really rewarding thing and I'm very
thankful for that
yeah so I want you guys to just notice
this right cuz I don't think this gets
better through control control matters I
I think it gets better when whatever
that thing within you that is broken and
alone and sort of like wants to be in
the darkness but also like thrives on it
right like darkness [ __ ] feeds this
ship yes yes and and like you guys you
guys need the [ __ ] light man and in
the amazing thing is that when you put
light on it it just goes away it gets we
mentioned in the past that when
something is kept within like a Sun scar
it just grows until it eventually
consumes you and that's like a really
relatable feeling that that's that's
what's happening here guys is that you
guys have had this thing and just think
about how long you guys have been
carrying this how long it's been in your
basement and sort of like feeding off of
that darkness right like we're talking
like a decade or more for so it feels
really strong and you guys also go for
it okay um like earlier we were talking
about physical feelings like mentally
and I'm sort of I'm okay with talking
about this and I wasn't really that
anxious but when you join the core it
wasn't like a thought that hit me it was
this physical it felt like that got
agitated and it was like this wave of
energy sort of overwhelming my nervous
system like it was rushing through every
part of me really intensely and as the
calls gone on up so I've been able to
sit in the experience and my body is
sort of calming down which is quite a
refreshing feeling yeah so okay anybody
else want to add anything I think it's
all great yeah actually it it reminds me
of a lot of these times where I mean
I've gone sometimes without porn for a
long time like up to like 50 days one
time I think and then when you're
without it for a while and then you come
back to it you get like for me my whole
body just starts trembling like when I
see just one suggestive image like I
just started trembling like super
violently you know that's kind of the
same feeling I got when I joined the
stream as well it's like this thing is
like waking up it's freaky like it was
doing exactly yeah man this is some this
is some demonic possession level [ __ ]
man I don't know if anyone used the word
animalistic impulse but you know I don't
know if it's hardwired in our nature I
remember there was something that
someone told me humans are meant to mate
humans are made to survive that's it
we're married to mate and feed and then
we die and it's a really weird way to
think about that and I don't like seeing
it in that light so the thing with me is
I don't want to see it as like a monster
anymore for me it's like I train after I
masturbate I don't have the energy to go
to jujitsu I want to train then I
haven't gone to training in like two
weeks because I've been on a really bad
binge so I'm going to go to training I'm
gonna go to jujitsu and I'm gonna be
fine then I'm gonna be able to put the
energy in different places and not have
to rely on this crutch that I've been
dealing with her so long
can I get a [ __ ] yeah absolutely man so
so I okay I got a I just need a second
to think is that okay guys yeah yeah
okay all right I'm so I we could talk
more there's a lot of stuff we haven't
covered right so we haven't really
talked about nofap we haven't talked
about relationships I think all that
stuff is gonna be you know super
important to talk about but there's a
part of me that wants to help y'all and
I think we've done that already so I
feel good about that
but I want to help you guys more
concretely and so I want to talk to you
guys about solutions is that okay
yeah so the first thing is that this is
a physical thing this is not like you
guys aren't like mentally ill I mean
sure you I'm sure you meet some criteria
somewhere but like I don't I don't think
of this as a defect in your mind okay
III think about I mean there's just this
overwhelming sense that something
happened to you guys when y'all were
young and something kind of got damaged
and then that is a thing that is not bad
it's not evil it's just hungry
it's just unsatisfied and and whatever
that thing is that we call it loneliness
call it the beast call it a demon I I
don't think it's actually an evil thing
I think it just it just gets you know
it's gonna eat whatever it can however
it knows best does that make sense it's
kind of
it's kind of like a yeah absolutely it
was like the Strega yeah and and so I
think much like this trigga you can find
the princess underneath right so I think
that's that's actually what needs to
happen it's a really good analogy
actually wait what's this trigger people
who can explain this trick um but it's
like when does when the when a pregnant
mother dies and the baby is like cursed
and it comes out and it survives it just
eats the flesh of people and it's like
this one's the child pause pause for a
second so this is a fictional thing from
The Witcher if you guys have played The
Witcher if you all assume let's so
ghosts let's just start there right we
got to let people know it's not anyway
so it's like a cursed thing that's just
perpetually hungry so and if onlys is
like dead flesh then it's gonna be evil
but it doesn't necessarily have to be
yeah so it's kind of like a baby that's
you know tragic circumstances and all
that and then it kind of becomes a demon
sort of thing but so the first thing is
that I think that you know you guys are
just missing something that is is not I
mean it's not that y'all are like
morally defect it's that something
happened to you guys when y'all were
pretty young it sounds like and then
there's something within you that's just
hungry for wholeness for more for beyond
anything else what I'm sensing you guys
need is wholeness y'all just want to be
like whole and calm and like chillin in
the Sun and not like Hungary in like a
half thing that's like half living in
the basement and then you guys are
fighting this thing right because
sometimes it comes out of the basement
and sometimes you guys like you grab
like a chair and a whip and you guys
like drive it back into the basement and
then it's like down there and it's
mucking around for a while then it
bursts out again and then you guys are
in this constant war which you're just
not gonna win like that's not gonna be
how it works but there are things that
calm it down right there are things that
cause it to be like Morcant
and and that's actually like talking to
other people it's like recognizing that
oh there's like a half dozen dudes out
there who have like weird stringers in
their basement and and and somehow like
you feel like at peace and as long as
you the more that we can cultivate that
sense of wholeness and we'll get to how
to do that
and what I'm talking about is wholeness
I'm talking about warmth I'm talking
about connection the less powerful this
thing is going to become and our
strategy here go for it ghost oh sorry
it sort of feels like the idea Jung's
idea of like integrating the shadow if
you continue to just repress it it will
grow into this monster but it's a part
of you it's like a part of your soul
that you're oppressing and assumes that
you learn to integrate it into who you
are sooner you can feel holy yeah I
completely agree so I'm a big fan of
young and that's a big part of like my
general treatment approach right which
is that we are just like go said that we
have parts of us and then like we have
to bring those parts together because I
think this thing is not evil what it is
is hurt does that make sense like this
thing is just a gigantic ball of hurt
and then what it's done is it's managed
to find some circuit in your brain which
makes it feel a little bit better for a
little while and since that hurt in that
hunger there it's gonna like keep on
making you fat because like that's the
only way it knows how to feel like a
little bit better for a little for a
little while and so the solution here is
not to get like really really
controlling I mean we can talk about
that in terms of like resisting the urge
to fat because there may be some value
to that it's really in figuring out like
what is this hunger inside you and like
how can we calm that down how can we
help you feel like loved and whole and
accepted because the more you guys feel
that way and this is the other trend
that I'm noticing is that that you know
when you guys start to feel like
positivity in your life the thing
weakens so what we want to do is not
conquer it we want to like make it weak
we want to tame it not like destroy it
does that make sense yeah any questions
about that general idea like you who
here disagrees with what I'm saying and
sort of thinks like oh no this is like
we're completely off
I agree but um what one thing I sort
want to draw attention to I remember you
said something on another stream about
if someone is like anorexic and they're
cutting and they have like academic
problems you can start to solve one but
then the problem will manifest with the
others no it feels like there been times
in my life where I've been able to not
kick the addiction but I guess keep it
at bay for long enough to see that I
could live a better life without it and
that my life is better without it but
then it feels like I'm scared of my own
success and I get drawn back into it
because you default that there's
conflict and that's how it feels like
because you can't fall further than the
bottom of the pit yep so I was you you
jumped ahead a little bit but there's
there's one thing that I think is gonna
be really dangerous guys is that as you
guys get better this thing is gonna
start freaking the [ __ ] out and it's
going to be harder to resist because it
does not want to die and as you put
light on to it it's gonna feel afraid
that is dying this some weird like
psycho mumbo-jumbo kind of [ __ ] okay
so like this is not scientific but like
there's something within me that that
tells me that as you guys actually start
to get better as we start to sometimes
heal wounds they don't understand what
the [ __ ] is happening like there is some
part of you that's gonna be primitive
and it's gonna fight you tooth and nail
to bring you back to where you were
because the mind prefers what it knows
to what's good yeah actually when it's
especially when it's something that you
know you've become so used to and it
kind of gets part of your routine you
know
you do the same things every single day
and you don't even realize it the same
job the same school the same work same
wife same girlfriend you know it's it's
all a circle it's all one big circle
absolutely it's about breaking here's
the thing you guys have been struggling
with this for so long for so many years
we're talking a decade or more right for
many of y'all and so there's gonna be a
part of you that says even though your
life is shitty right now at least you
can survive I know you can survive I've
done it for a decade I can do it for
five more NBD
no big deal and there's gonna be a part
of there's gonna be a time and place
where actually I think you guys are
gonna need another level of courage to
actually like risk living a life without
this thing because then you don't know
if you're gonna be able to survive I
know it sounds completely crazy and I
honest you guys get what I'm saying
sorry cool so what I mean to say is that
there's actually gonna be a time where
right now you guys want to be free from
this right you are gonna have to fight a
battle because one day there's gonna be
a thought in your mind where you don't
want to be free of it you actually want
to go back that's gonna be a [ __ ]
hard battle does that make sense yeah
I've had literal flashbacks before when
I've like abstained I've had sudden
memories come to me of the process and
it feels like um like on its dying
breath it's desperately trying to pop up
one last fight and it feels like it
feels like a battle of forces within you
and that the whole you is like the body
on which these competing forces is
acting and you're just sort of watching
a war within yourselves yeah so you guys
have to watch out for this okay we're
gonna I mean this is I do not envy you
guys so up until this point I really
have not thought about this but this is
the one moment where I know
Arendt I mean I like I feel sad for your
situation because I think this is a
heart like it's hard to let go and
that's what you guys need to learn how
to do which is we're gonna get there but
you have to let go of wanting this thing
right you have to say to yourself at
some point like okay that's a life that
it's gonna tell you and you guys have we
haven't talked too much about
rationalizations and all that but you
guys know you remind relies all kinds of
[ __ ] to you so it's not about convincing
it that it's wrong because here's the
crazy thing it's not wrong that's your
buddy being controlled by the some scar
and it's not wrong that's why it's so
[ __ ] hard to argue against because
you guys are smart and the smarter you
are the better it's gonna be at coming
up with reasons to convince you so it's
not your self Bethell absolutely so it's
it's not about convincing it it's not
about fighting it it's about letting go
it's about saying yeah you're right
there are a thousand good reasons for me
to go back to that lifestyle there's
security there there's safety there I
get to be in control of the hurt inside
me and that's what you guys have to give
up that's what's [ __ ] hard because
right now you guys have a light switch
to control the hurt inside you you can
go to this thing in the heart inside you
gets taken care of for a little while in
a shitty way but it gets taken care of
and what you guys have to choose is a
life where you're no longer in control
of that hurt you got to give up this is
your [ __ ] cheat code it's the coping
mechanism for everything negative within
you what would you say if um if you feel
like there's immense sort of guilt and
shame within you from let's say age four
or five onwards and it feels like
there's this really dominant force in
you that feels that you deserve this
pain and you deserve to be in the pit
how would you say um yeah how would you
go about dealing with that
I mean I think that's the crux right
that's the damage that's the thing so I
think you've got to figure out you know
why you started believing yourself why
you started believing that about
yourself and then as long as you believe
that so that's what you have to let go
of so that that - and sorry if I'm
speaking abstractly because it's I mean
you weren't saying something vague but I
just don't know if other people are
gonna understand this
I feel like hopefully you will but so
there's something very possessive like
you want to hang on to that right
there's something very jealous about
your shame you're like you you deserve
this this is yours to bear it's mine
it's my precious right and you want to
hang on to it even though it makes you
feel bad you want to hang on to it you
gotta let go and this is the really
dangerous thing when it comes to like
letting go of negative feelings within
you like do you guys understand that
when you all have that negative feeling
with with you know since the age of five
you've had this thing and then now you
guys have walls that keep it at bay
which is the porn addiction you guys
build up walls to protect yourselves you
guys are are y'all are [ __ ] good
people right like I look at you guys and
I like each and every one of you I'm
surprised by how normal you are right
like you guys are normal people there's
nothing wrong with you that means a lot
coming from you dr. K and I know that's
a giant I know what abnormal looks like
I'm an expert at the abnormal and y'all
are [ __ ] normal you guys are just
normal people that had something [ __ ]
bad happen to you and then your brain is
wired a certain way and then you use
these you build up these walls around
all of these negative feelings and so
now you guys need immense courage
because taking those walls down is
[ __ ] it's hard because ghosts you
have to let
that shame run rampant through your mind
you have to open the door to that shame
because right now you keep it walled off
because you can control it is the fuss
though not just technology just breaking
the [ __ ] walls down and letting it
flood you that's what you've got to do
like sit in the experience absolutely
yeah I mean if you can observe it
fantastic I think you're gonna get
[ __ ] overwhelmed for a little while
and then you'll you got to come up for
air you know it's gonna wash over you so
I think at some point there's got to be
some letting go and in that kind of
stuff but I'm also like a really
practical guy like I can tell you guys
this weird [ __ ] abstract stuff
there's a there's a voice in the back of
my mind that's like what the [ __ ] are
these guys gonna do with that like I can
I can weave this beautiful symbolism and
then you know then you guys like log off
the call and then you know that what
let's talk concrete okay so we go into
more so like what it is to let go
good so first of all my approach to it
has always been rationalization and it's
always been an uphill battle what does
it mean to let go like is it just to
like be in the experience of it or um
I'm not quite sure yes you mean by
letting yeah great so I'm gonna tell you
guys so now we get to the concrete part
great great question Richard the first
thing is that this is something of your
body it is not necessarily of your mind
first thing you guys got to do is
something physical so who here goes to a
yoga class who has access to yoga you
guys do yoga all of you guys need to go
to yoga or Tai Chi either ones fine okay
and if you want to understand what
letting go is Richard do yoga then
you'll understand yoga okay can I can I
throw in another example and see if it
might work
so my I'm fairly blessed to have a sauna
inside my house and I use it very
regularly does it have the same kind of
effects as yoga or is there something
about the the experience of yoga when
you're using your body complex to you
know do yoga stuff yoga superior one is
making more receptive to endorphins
so saunas fantastic I think if you have
access to a sauna
first of all jealous much and then
secondly it is different okay so there's
overwhelming scientific research that
mind-body exercise practices are
superior to other exercise practices
okay so like there are lots of
randomized control trials that compare
yoga to exercise so the control you guys
know what I like how a randomized
control trial works okay just real quick
so what we do is we take we're studying
a condition let's say like depression or
anxiety and then so let's just say
anxiety and what we do is we take a
hundred people and we put 50 of them in
a control group and so the control group
is sometimes like an exercise class and
50 of them in a yoga class and then we
measure their anxiety like after eight
weeks and we see like what's going on so
yoga and Tai Chi have been shown to be
superior to exercise and it's probably
because they have a relatively mental
component so yoga and Tai Chi are both
mind-body practices they're like both
mental and physical practices they're
not just physical practices and for a
lot of people who exercise they over
time incorporate a mental component but
yoga and Tai Chi are like designed to be
mind-body practices whereas a lot of
people will discover a mental component
to their physical exercise but it's not
like baked-in like running is a good
example where people who are runners
will describe this kind of meditative
like state when they run for long
periods of time yeah but but I mean but
that's all
I mean it's Yoga is like designed to
sort of make you into a particular
mind-body space which I think is gonna
help you can I think question about yoga
yeah I remember I saw you
you you did an exercise with someone
where you had them buzz like a bee ah
and it really fascinated me and it made
me think about the connection between
the body and emotion and I was reading
about this idea that trauma is like
physically stored in the body I have
that Yoga is like opening a series of
chambers throughout the body and it sort
of allows the emotions to flow through
because like you know I don't know like
go on a like a tirade here but like if
your nervous system gets overwhelmed
like your body floods with the emotion
and they can just store it for years and
it can make you like physiologically it
increases like your morbidity and
everything and I was reading that Yoga
paired with therapy is better than
either one of them alone because Yoga
allows the emotions to flow through your
body so they can more easily be so
opened up and it was saying that memory
trauma and the body are all linked in
that way yeah so I believe most of that
although most of that is not scientific
right so so that there's like a lot of
pseudoscience around physical stuff and
trauma in my experience what I think is
much more scientifically valid is simply
that men experience emotions much more
physically than mentally so if you talk
to men like when you guys are talking
about like what are the words that we
use to describe this thing
physically it's like pop no we know we
don't use deceitful we haven't deceitful
has not been mentioned at all Mike point
entirely what is the actual language
that you guys used to describe this
hunger absolutely right you guys don't
think that's a [ __ ] emotion that's an
emotion right but you guys don't
understand what emotion it is but you
everyone understands like one person's
like hungry and that everyone else is
like yeah man like that's an emotion
right and and so with it I mean well the
whole point is that this is physical
like we've been [ __ ] talking about
trauma you guys have been traumatized
when you're all like ten and you guys
talk about hunger now like this is my
point is that that it's not the children
cry it's just like literally like this
is how we're like we're socialized to
experience emotion this way so we are
going to access this so I agree ghost
that Yoga is very helpful for trauma I
agree that trauma has I mean I think
anything in our mind has some kind of
physical manifestation or correlation
and a lot of this stuff about you know
using like physical like knots and and
energy and chakras like I buy into a lot
of that stuff but it's not actually
scientific okay so we just got to be a
little bit careful there so it doesn't
mean that it doesn't help it doesn't
mean that it isn't therapeutic and I'm
advocating yoga to you guys I think you
guys must do yoga because you have to
get in touch with your body because this
is a physical thing for y'all and in
yoga yoga is going to connect your
physical sensations with emotions
and it's also just you know does good
things for your immune system and things
like that
second thing yeah and so the goal of
yoga is to help you guys be in your body
and Richard when you say how do you let
go I mean so that's not something we can
talk about it more but my voice isn't
gonna last very long but I think it's
something that's merely something that
you have to you have to learn how to do
right like so if I took like a
two-year-old kid and I was teaching that
kid how to let go like how do I teach
that kid mm-hmm so it's a good question
I think as you do yoga you'll learn that
like getting into the right pose is not
about trying harder it's actually about
letting go would you say that Yoga is
for the body what meditation is for the
mind like it's almost this sort of
meditative process well yeah so
technically what Yoga is is a
premeditation state for it's like it's
to prepare your body for meditation and
Darren's the the when whenever you guys
are doing yoga so I'm gonna teach you
guys just a little bit about yoga
because there seems to be some curiosity
okay so the goal of yoga is to bring the
attention of your mind to the present so
we're gonna do we need Richard for this
because Richard has to okay we're gonna
I'm gonna teach you guys exactly what
yoga's so the goal of yoga is to bring
the attention of your mind to the
present and so the goal of doing all
like turning yourself into a human
pretzel is not to increase your
flexibility it's to adopt a particular
physical like posture that you can't
think about anything else okay so we're
gonna do this right now you guys ready
hold your arms up yeah and tell me
what's happening in your mind it's okay
okay so I want you guys to just notice
okay so arms up
so you guys are having thoughts but over
time what's gonna happen the physical
demands of your body arms up no pushing
to talk okay so just keep your arms up
so as your arms get tired just keep them
up there then it's gonna start demanding
your attention you guys feel that your
arms are like signaling to you now
they're like hey hey we're up here and
then the the further the longer we go
the more your attention is going to be
stuck in your arms does that make sense
the arms are demanding the attention
demanding your attention demanding your
attention notice what's happening in
your mind now close your eyes feel hold
it good now continue to feel you may
notice thoughts arise you may notice
perspiration okay now hold it hold it
hold it and now let go you feel that
Richard absolutely eyes closed
oh yeah that is [ __ ] letting go do
you understand now just feel that's
letting go how do you all feel right now
now you can open your eyes and use
push-to-talk peaceful like a weights
been lifted incredible
yeah relieved that jeez that physical
that physical exercise was such a
powerful experience that the that my
mind trying to like my arms trying to
bring the attention to my mind was a it
started to kind of build and then I was
able to like
maintain that connection and then once I
let go it was just like okay hi I've
accepted that it's time to just so
Richard what is why that's letting go
right like I can't [ __ ] explain it
but just got it you know you gotta let
go
it's like field ring answering all the
the demands of your arms that are saying
like dude put me down please yes and
you're really answering right okay so
you guys alright I got um I got addicted
to running in the past and it feels like
I now understand where that feeling came
from like I was letting go that is a
great focus on when you focus on the
energy demand of your body and when you
really experience the sensation of
running without you know suffering when
you just feel the sort of pain but
neutrally it's this really peaceful
state yes dr. kay about the connection
between yoga and why yoga was so
different and the way that I was able to
put all of my attention up on my arms
reminded me of my jujitsu training but
that was special I didn't realize how
simple it was when you take out a lot of
the complicated it's like you said
you're not trying to turn your body into
a pretzel you're trying to use your mind
to get to a better place and I I think
yo that's amazing
okay beautiful I'm glad you guys like
that so sorry
yeah I just have a personal concern
about yoga because okay my back a few
years ago and I was just worrying if
they're they're like more simple poses
that I can do or simple things like like
what we just stated like raising our
arms up or something like that that can
benefit me because I have limb ability
absolutely so first of all if you have
if you've broken your back you know
talk to your doctor about doing yoga or
Tai Chi
sometimes people handle Tai Chi a little
bit better than yoga if they've had a
back injury but Yoga is actually really
good for back injuries so if you go to a
yoga class and you guys have like a
medical condition you should let the
instructors know and also talk to your
doctor about it and just say hey and
then you know listen to your body so
don't like it's not about a pissing
contest it's not about who can hold
their arms up the longest you guys
understand that if you're comparing
yourself to someone else in the room
your mind is not where it should be
which is on you so don't do anything in
yoga that is painful Yoga is not
supposed to be painful so if your back
is signaling to you hey I don't like
this kind of stuff that's completely
fine there are all kinds of postures
that you can do from a seated position
there are all kinds of postures that you
can do [ __ ] straight laying down you
can do all kinds of stuff with a back
injury and yoga so definitely you can
also you know have you seen a physical
therapist in recovery after your back
after you broke your back yeah I went
through physical therapy for about six
months it helped a lot and now I don't I
don't really need anymore
yeah so if you don't need it you're
probably kind of back to normal so it's
good to know if you you know to be
careful about yoga but the other thing
that you can do is depending on how long
ago that was or if you have a
relationship with your physical
therapist you can also talk to them and
say hey I'm interested in doing a yoga
class what do you think are there are
some kinds of strengthening exercises
that I need to do or there's some things
that I need to avoid and and really like
this is exactly what you know physical
therapists and doctors are for great
point okay so coming back to this now
earlier I was kind of talking about you
know the sequence of events before you
kind of you know when you kind of feel
certain physical things or mental things
you try to rationalize and all that kind
of stuff so the other thing about this
practice is where was your mind
it was mostly on my arms like I've had
experience experiences with meditating
before I'd probably weren't the most
read transformative experiences um while
I was meditating a few years ago I felt
like it was it's very easy for me to
just focus all the attention on my arms
good for right so go for me my mind was
my mind was blank and just experiencing
the sensation was I don't know if that
was in my mind or that was my body but
that's that's all I was doing I was just
experiencing this sensation so that's
consciousness right so it's
consciousness without mental activity so
thoughts are the mind desires thoughts
that's all mine you guys were hopefully
conscious so you were present and
experiencing without thought does that
make sense yeah yeah and when you guys
struggle against the the porn addiction
is that within the mind or outside of
the mind that's it's outside of the mind
is the physical urge that we have to do
it okay and then what about the battle
where does the battle take place in the
mind yeah absolutely right so the other
thing that I want you guys to try to do
is is learn something called urge
surfing so as you feel that physical
sensation notice the the the connection
between the physical sensation and what
it creates in your mind and then you
guys fight in the mind sometimes you win
sometimes you lose so be it if you can
step out of your mind and sit with the
physical sensation just see what happens
and understand that that desire to turn
to porn is going to be like it's like an
urge that's going to come and you can
actually surf on top of it it's not
fighting against it it's not trying to
keep the waves at bay it's just riding
it out surf I wrote that I read that
monks can hold their hand on burning hot
objects for longer
just by focusing on the sensation of the
barn is that like a sort of similar
feeling that you're able to sort of
quell the immense feeling just by
focusing in on it yeah so what once you
experience so don't hold your hand on
burning things just there but what what
monks are able to do is to sit with a
sensation without judgment right so like
it feels bad to hold your arm up but you
can sit with that feeling of badness for
a longer period of time as long as
you're sitting with it purely does that
make sense
like with intention and focus you can
sit with a negative sensation for a
greater amount of time than you
otherwise would so it's like decoupling
the emotional component from just the
actual sensation it's up you beautiful
it's decoupling everything not just the
emotional component decoupling is the
point decoupling is via our detachment
it's separating yourself from the thing
okay now we're getting into advanced
concepts I want to like close off a
couple things to leave you guys you know
with like some kind of plan so yoga
second thing is understand that when you
guys do these practices you're trained
training your mind to do what you tell
it to which is to focus on what you
choose to do this is cool because once
you train this skill you can tell your
mind hey I want you to go and think
about that and then your mind is gonna
be like okay because right now that's
not what it does right now
your mind is like oh porn and then
you're like no no come over here and
then your mind is like no no no let's go
to porn and you're like no no come over
here no no porn so like train yourself
to focus your mind where you want it to
go that is a skill you can level that
[ __ ] up and this is how you do it right
you do this [ __ ] every single day not
necessarily that one but if you guys
like that one you can do that one now we
get to one more yoga practice which I'm
going to teach you guys I'm going to
teach you guys a bunt up okay so number
one do any of you guys have a history of
a hernia
okay if you have a history of a
herniation - if this is unpleasant or is
painful in any way or anything like that
any of you guys have a history of the
base chakra thing yes that's exactly
what it is so any of you guys have a
history of like improper valves in
somewhere in your urinary tract or
anything like that okay
so rule number one if this is causes
some kind of pain or unpleasantness or
anything like that just stop okay I'm
gonna teach you guys something called
Abunda which is a lock so bunda means
lock like LOC k so what I want you guys
to do you guys know where the taint is
yeah okay
so the taint is the area it's it's your
perineum it's the area between your
scrotum in your anus okay
so I want you guys to try doing
something I know this is gonna sound
kind of weird but you guys know you can
contract that yeah so like you know
there's a muscle that you can do that
you can use to like lift your penis
right to load the Kegel thing yes like
the Kegel thing focus boys and girls so
you know there's there's you guys know
sorry just flex that muscle for a second
you guys know what I'm talking about
flex it so you can raise the peanut and
now where as you flex it you should feel
a tightness in the perineum with me yeah
yeah does anyone not have a [ __ ] clue
what I'm talking about
okay so now close your eyes and then I
want you to tighten one two three relax
tighten one two three
relax tighten one two three relax
hold on a second hello hello yeah they
can tighten the perineum but it's gonna
be different for them okay fine okay
okay so so if you're a woman you can do
this too so this is the other way you
can find this thing is it's also the
same muscle that you do that you use to
stop the flow of your urine midstream so
that make sense already badly can I go
yeah yeah go go piss okay
so but you guys you guys get the
sensation that I'm talking about so just
okay let's like just so tighten again
one two three relax and do two more
rounds good okay fantastic
all right so yoga class learn to
concentrate your attention right do this
this is called mula bandha mula is your
base chakra and what you're kind of
doing like so you can do this for let's
say like between one and start off with
like just doing five rounds because it's
like kind of hard right does that mean
it's like difficult to do so you can
work your way up to doing like you know
rounds that are maybe five seconds ten
seconds for a total of like three
minutes and you want to do this at the
end of like a meditation practice or end
of yoga class or something like that so
if you guys go to a yoga class at the
very end that are gonna have you do
something called shavasan which is
corpse pose so they're just gonna ask
you to lie down on the floor on your
back and relax as you do shavasan you
can do mula bandha
for like a minute or two two minutes
three minutes is fine okay if you start
to feel bad or it hurts or anything like
that don't do it last thing is that you
guys were talking about idleness and so
idleness is gonna bring this out so the
other thing that you all have to do is
figure out how are you guys gonna like
reduce the idleness
in your life right like so what do y'all
want to do about that the way that I see
it dr. K is I view it as internal volume
is when I would get an urge to
masturbate or to go to porn I would get
a very strong feeling of just you need
to do this you need to do this you need
to do this and it kind of goes into what
you were saying a little bit earlier
about trying to surf and ride that urge
and ride it away and go the thing that I
wanted to ask you specifically was what
do you do when it gets to a point where
you feel like you know maybe medication
would be something that would be
beneficial for me maybe I cannot turn
down my internal volume yes so I think
it's completely reasonable for you guys
to get evaluated by a doctor or mental
health professional for this problem
there are some medications that can help
with this they don't work great but
especially if you guys have some kind of
depression or anxiety or things like
that that are contributing to it because
remember that
so conquering this thing is not it's
like it's about probabilities right it's
about strengthening your ability to
reduce its effect on you and that that
battle is fought like five percent at a
time so if you guys start going to yoga
class then that's gonna be like five
percent if you start meeting with other
people and hanging out like that's gonna
be five percent and then you're gonna
build up like five percent over time so
I do think that if the urges are too
strong getting a professional evaluation
is a great idea and the other thing is
that you know it's you're not gonna fix
this overnight so treat yourself with
compassion and forgiveness for like not
being able to fix yourself
I don't know dr. kay I had a quick
question on that yeah so um I'm uh I'm
in the circumstance where I recently
broke my computer right now I'm using my
laptop and I've significantly reduced my
video game time and when my urges occur
they don't occur when I'm playing the
video game so now that my computer's is
not functioning right now I do have a
I'm in a state of I have a lot more
idleness
you know just throughout the day so is
that more like do I just need to fill my
day with more things outside of the
house or and yeah yeah that's exactly
what I'm saying guys it's like you guys
need to think about this right so
understand that your forward progress is
going to be influenced by your
environment so like the two things that
we still need to talk about is idleness
and secondly connection because when you
guys are isolated things get worse and
talking about this I mean you guys
realize which we've been doing for two
hours we can do this for two [ __ ]
hours I had no idea right plumbs was
like that's crazy and and so you guys
have to structure time with other people
and you have to structure time away from
idleness because you're not gonna be
able to fix this as long as your idle we
heard it from squash earlier about you
know going to jiu-jitsu class and like
finding motivation and stuff like that
so I don't know what exactly it looks
like but you guys have to figure out you
know what you want to do the other thing
is y'all can come hang out on discord if
you guys want to you know figure out
like like if you guys want to meet and
just check in with each other once a
week I don't think that's a bad idea so
at some point you know I'm in the
process of training coaches and maybe
the coaches can help you guys out a
little bit we're just not there yet in
terms of their training but I think you
guys should get together because like
y'all's camaraderie with each other is
like important right and you guys get a
lot out of that so at the end of the day
there's all this deep damaged dark
whatever inside you but like yoga
classes mula bandha thinking about
idleness and then companionship right
not necessarily like romantic or
anything but just like other people like
it's a multiplayer game you guys got a
party up so if you guys wanted that's
what this discord is for so you know you
guys can hop on discord but I I just
think that each of y'all has to think
concretely about what you're gonna do to
reduce your idleness and it's not corner
go just getting out of house just think
about like one of the things when you
think about yourself three years from
now what's something that you would like
to be different about your life you know
whether it's being in shape whether it's
learning a different language whether
it's having a job whether it's being
back in school or you know just think
about this like I don't I I think
sometimes like this is gonna sound
really silly but you guys realize you
create your life yeah absolutely
absolutely right like so so you can you
can actually like try to do something
tomorrow in the next day in the next day
and a year from now you will be a
different person and your life will be
different so think about what that is
and start with like one thing don't
start it don't make it a wish list
you guys aren't magic genies just think
like take like one thing right like what
is something that you want to be
different about your life what is
something that requires time go for it
um something really like so hopeful it
feels like um when I was still like so I
just turned 18 and it feels like being
like an adult now and having these
freedoms feels like maybe this time I
can actually so break the addiction for
good because I can go out and actively
do things rather than being considered
like a child so if I can actually create
my own life I think I can kick it yeah
I'm sorry Harold
um just bouncing off word he said I
turned 18 like a few months ago as well
and I thought the exact same thing like
finally
I'm in more control I can use that
better so [ __ ] lazy yeah right on man
I think the the problem that I have is
that you know like like for me
personally I'm financially well-off and
I I'm in a relationship with someone so
those those things aren't necessarily
something that is grading at me but the
I think the core of the problem for me
is that I just don't have a sense of
purpose and I just feel kind of stuck in
life so when when I try to integrate
these these positive behaviors like you
know going outside something as simple
as going outside for a walk or
meditating or something like that it's
hard for me to stick with those things
sorry for me to even integrate those
things in general even though I want to
do that you know yes I think that's
something else and I struggle with a lot
so Virgil that's Virgil right yes sir
yeah so Virgil I I completely sympathize
with you man unfortunately I don't think
we have time to dig into that now
because we're about that time for the
day but I think you know that is a
common problem for like everyone on our
discord and everyone in our audience and
it's central to the work that we do at
healthy gamer videogame sort
sorry sorry button is it in terms of
like does it stem from a way are the way
that our brain processes video games and
how changes or is it are you asking me
no I'm asking dr. K actually and so so
what's the question
you said that like this is a problem
with you know it is an obstacle rather
that everyone is kind of suffering from
from this discord is it because I know
that a lot of the discord comes from a
video game audience yeah I guess I was
trying to hint at the idea is that is
that where it's stemming from video
games yeah
the process is like I'm having trouble
creating things I'm reading avenues yes
and no so I mean I think that's I mean
there that's a lot of what I talk about
on other streams I I think that many
people who are directionless find in the
same way that for you guys the porn
addiction you know how it like feeds you
a little bit but doesn't satisfy it does
the trick but it doesn't actually
satisfy what's missing in your life so I
think a lot of people who feel
directionless get some degree of
satisfaction from the video game which
is really not what they're looking for
but it's like close enough and it's
easily accessible right because games do
challenge us they're like hard they're
challenging they give us a sense of
accomplishment you know we feel like you
know when you're lay if you're playing
like a competitive game like you're
gonna feel really amazing after like a
really hard game that you win and so
it's it's hard for your brain when you
have such an easily accessible trigger
for some of those positive feelings it
can be really hard to invest all of this
time into like building your life
because you don't know what that's gonna
bring I have two questions yeah um so
the first one like earlier you were
saying when you were talking about the
odds of hitting you and your mind
bouncing around do you think that voters
are more like predisposed to like
falling into that trap being like the
wind element and like yes and no so I
think I think vatta's are gonna bounce
around more but I don't think that
vatta's like you know I think everyone
is gonna have urges so and you guys are
by the way a wide variety of different
Ayurvedic doshas but interesting
question so vodkas are gonna have more
fluctuations within their mind but I
think everyone is going to have the
urges so vodkas may experience the urges
more quickly and more suddenly whereas
other doshas are gonna like have kind of
a slow burn of an urge that starts to
build up in the morning and then kind of
creeps up and then kind of overwhelms
you other
people are gonna be kind of like medium
burn and vodkas gonna be like very
dynamic in terms of when you experience
the urge and how hard it is to you know
how long the urge is gonna last
so I'd say vodkas will have high
frequency of urges and low duration of
urges that makes sense they're not gonna
last long since what they'll hit
randomly and more often okay someone's
really doing their homework
okay this is unrelated I just want to
like quickly ask this um do you have any
thoughts on like I think it's called
Bromwich Oreo in relation to NOFA okay
so we haven't even talked about no fat
so Bromwich Aria is why don't you start
with ghosts why don't you tell us what
bromwich idea is I have like a really
basic understanding sure from my it
seems like it's um this idea of like
transmuting sexual energy I like the
idea of energy like climbing up your
chakras to be more conscious and like
like okay it's about the way you conduct
yourself
I'm sure godly way so let's talk about
what bromwich audio so brahmacari is
frequently translated as celibacy which
is not really what it is
so brahmacarya means to dwell in Brahman
and Brahman is sort of the infinite or
cosmic consciousness so in the east they
believe that the basic unit of reality
is like this cosmic consciousness and
that our individual consciousness is
like a drop out of this ocean and that
we kind of get that bit of consciousness
gets wrapped around with a mind in a
body and that's what makes up a person
and so Brahma chharia is the practice of
dwelling in Brahman so to have your mind
or consciousness be focused on the
cosmic consciousness and not focused
anywhere else
so technically brahmacari is translated
as celibacy so monks for example will
engage in Brahma cheerio which means
that they usually don't have sex
technically though technically
brahmacarya does not mean being celibate
it
means not being horny yeah right so it's
to have your mind dwell in like whatever
the infinite is I you know it's getting
hokey so if you guys want to understand
what Ramachari is like if you want to
understand what the infinite is I think
you guys saw just a tiny tiny amount of
it like when you did the arm practice
and then you relax there's just a moment
where you're just like your mind is kind
of off it you're just kind of like
chilling like you're in just the
straight chillin mode and when you get
closer and closer to Brahman like you're
in that straight chillin mode all the
time and when you're when you're
enlightened that's like what your mind
is doing all the time it's just straight
chillin like all the time so nothing
bothers you and like everything's kind
of gel and fun did you survive it yeah
okay
so anyway we haven't had a chance to
talk about nofap or relationships but
I'm gonna have to stop cuz also I just
can't keep going so I just want to offer
huh okay so closing thoughts guys go for
this was one of the coolest experiences
I think I've had in 2020 starting it off
with Kobe Bryant passing away and it's
just like this has really set me on such
a really good path and this is giving
you such a feeling of empowerment and
I'm honored and I'm blessed the fact
that I got to be here so thank you guys
thank you all and and can may I say
something yeah so we went over a lot of
a lot of things
relating the porn addiction how
difficult the process of kicking it will
be for us maybe some more difficult than
others but I would like us to reconvene
maybe like once a week and just talk
about how things are going for each of
us because I think one of the reasons
why we're been benefitting from this so
much is because we don't have a person
to turn to in our personal lives to to
talk about this so I think this this
talk was more important that then it may
have seemed yeah this experience this
experience has been incredible the whole
session I thought it went really well it
was incredible to hear everyone's unique
take on this and and it kind of you know
widened my understanding of like what it
is to be dealing with this and like that
probably the best thing my best takeaway
I'm gonna be watching the vaad to you
know kind of you know look over it again
but probably the highlight of it was
just to like hear dr. K's voices just
being in like a total blissful state and
just saying I have hope for you guys
there's there's something you know
there's something that it's just a
simple obstacle it's gonna be difficult
to take on but it just comes with you
know setting that intention and you know
sticking to it so I'm really excited for
it I think I'm speaking on behalf of
everyone that you know this this might
be the shift that everyone hears that
was looking for and yeah I'm just super
excited so this has been awesome yeah
I'm just like this at it again like also
I think I speak for everyone when I say
that like we all really respect you dr.
K and thanks for the AoE healing and I
hope you get some healing soon so you
don't feel as though
yeah thank you so let me ask you guys
though like do you have faith do you
have hope for each other forget about
yourself for a second do you hope for
the other people in here yeah just think
about that for a second man it's not
just me
you guys have hope for each other just
think about that every single person in
this call has hope for you wild there's
seven random strangers from the internet
that have hope after listening to you
talk about everything that you've
struggled with they have hope that you
can get better if you don't believe in
yourself you can believe in the people
that believe in you
absolutely I'm glad my camera's off so
you guys can't see my tears that's
wholesome yeah right and so just think
about what you had to show the other
people on this call to convince every
one of them I mean you don't even try to
convince them they just they've listened
to the words that have come out of your
mouth they've watched your face in some
cases they've listened to the tone of
your voice they've listened to what
you've said they've listened to your
struggles and they are all concluding
that they have hope for you that is
[ __ ] amazing
[Music]
alrighty anybody else want to share some
closing thoughts are we I just want to
thank you dr. kay and everyone in the
call for sharing the experiences and
like talking about this subject because
as I said never really talked about this
and it's been really helpful like
hearing your stories and just relating
to them so yeah it like thank you and I
hope you get better and thank you
everyone need a call I just want to
acknowledge this is completely off topic
I just want to not acknowledge that the
chat is saying I look like a guy called
burger I don't know if that's how you
say his name and also talked from
Santorini okay anybody else want to say
goodbye
are we good I don't want to pressure
anyone thank you so much all right guys
thank you all for coming on this you
know
February 14th strong work guys and and
once again just huge props to the you
know the cojones to show up and talking
a bunch a sensitive topic because it's
it's not easy and yeah good luck guys
you take care of make it I'm gonna make
it